Breaking news on the website:

Watch: BBC's Lyse Doucet reports from Iran on the ceasefire with Israel
Lyse Doucet reports from the streets of Tehran, where she says things are staring to return to normal.
45 mins ago
Middle East

A satellite image shows new airstrike craters on the perimeter of the Fordow Fuel Enrichment Facility, amid the Iran-Israel conflict, near Qom, Iran, June 24, 2025
Damaged or destroyed - how much does leaked US report on Iran's nuclear sites tell us?
Fordo is probably the most spied-on place on the planet - and work to understand what is happening there is set to intensify further.
1 hr ago
World

LIVE
Trump says Iran's nuclear plans put back 'decades' by US strikes after report suggests impact limited
Elsewhere, Nato's chief calls Trump "daddy" when asked about the US president's use of an expletive in criticising Israel and Iran.

Left-wing Democrat stuns former governor in NY mayor primary
The 33-year-old democratic socialist would be the first Muslim to lead the nation's largest city if elected.
10 hrs ago
US & Canada

LIVE
Nato members confirm defence and security spend to hit 5% of GDP by 2035
In a statement, called the Hague Declaration, members also say: "We reaffirm our ironclad commitment to collective defence".

LIVE
BBC Verify Live: Analysing new satellite images of Iran nuclear sites
Latest updates from the BBC's specialists in fact-checking, verifying video and tackling disinformation.

South Korea banned dog meat. So what happens to the dogs?
Advocates are concerned about the fate of half a million animals which face the threat of euthanasia.
9 hrs ago
Asia

The monsters that ruled the Earth before dinosaurs
Long before T. rex, the Earth was dominated by super-carnivores stranger and more terrifying than anything dreamed up by Hollywood.
3 hrs ago
Future

Attabad Lake in Pakistan's Hunza Valley with mountains in background (Credit: Misa Talpur)
Pakistan's stunning mountain lake born from disaster
When a massive landslide dammed the Hunza River, it destroyed villages – and created one of the most breathtaking lakes in Pakistan.
1 hr ago
Travel
