The first three posts with the post name, author and content on website:

1. 8 min ago
Post name: The US has "to take action" to secure stability around the world, NATO chief says
Author: From CNN’s Rob Picheta and Kaitlin Collins
Content: NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte addresses a press conference during the NATO summit in The Hague on Wednesday. Nicolas Tucat/AFP/Getty Images
The United States “has to take action when it is necessary” to secure peace around the world, NATO’s secretary general said Wednesday after the alliance’s summit in The Hague.

Asked by CNN about US President Donald Trump’s strikes on Iranian nuclear facilities, Mark Rutte told reporters: “Nobody in the world is able to do this. Only the United States.”

“You’re 25% of the world’s economy, you are by far the biggest military power in the world,” Rutte said during today’s news conference. “History makes you the leader. History makes you the ones who have to take action when it is necessary.”

He said that “studies being done” will establish “what exactly has been the effect of this,” adding: “I’m personally very optimistic that this has dealt a massive blow to Iran.”

Rutte was also asked by CNN how iron-clad Article 5, which commits the alliance to a collective response to an attack on any member state, is. “Article 5 is absolutely clear, and at the same time, we have always said we will never go into details about when exactly Article 5 will be triggered,” Rutte said.

“And why not? Because we don’t want to make our adversaries any wiser,” he said.

2. 27 min ago
Post name: Iran’s nuclear installations were "badly damaged" in US and Israeli attacks, Iranian spokesperson says
Author: From CNN's Mostafa Salem
Content: This Tuesday, June 24, 2025, satellite image provided by Maxar Technologies shows damage at Fordow enrichment facility after the US strikes on June 22.
Iran’s nuclear installations were “badly damaged” after “repeated attacks” by Israel and the United States, Iranian foreign ministry spokesperson Esmail Baghaei said in a televised interview.

Iranian officials and state media had previously played down the extent of the damage to the country’s nuclear program.

“Our nuclear installations have been badly damaged, that’s for sure, because it has come under repeated attacks by Israeli and American aggressors,” Baghaei told Al Jazeera.

He said the country’s atomic energy organization and agencies are working on a technical assessment of Iran’s nuclear facilities.

US President Donald Trump maintained Wednesday that the strikes he ordered on Iranian nuclear facilities caused “total obliteration,” even after CNN reported that an initial intelligence assessment found the attack only set back Tehran’s nuclear program by a few months.

While criticizing media coverage, Trump argued the strikes put Iran’s nuclear ambitions back decades.

Still, the US president acknowledged the intelligence was “inconclusive” and preliminary, and suggested Israel would provide a fuller picture shortly with its own findings.

The International Atomic Energy Agency, the UN’s nuclear watchdog, said the 12-day conflict “severely damaged several” of Iran’s nuclear sites.

Baghaei told Al Jazeera that the Iranian parliament voted to suspend cooperation with the IAEA, but did not approve the suspension of Iran’s membership in the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), an agreement designed to monitor and prevent the global spread of nuclear weapons as well as promote the peaceful use of nuclear technology.

3. 21 min ago
Post name: "What will convince them not to do it?": Listen to the latest episode of CNN's "One Thing"
Author: From CNN’s David Rind
Content: With a ceasefire underway between Israel and Iran, questions remain about just how much damage US strikes inflicted on Iran’s nuclear facilities.

Hear why CNN Global Affairs Analyst Kimberly Dozier thinks the country’s nuclear program could be reconstituted if a path to diplomacy does not materialize.

Check out the podcast here.


